Q1. What is an API? Give an example, where an API is used in real life.
Ans:
API (application programming interface) is a way for two or more computer programs, web application, or apps to communicate with each other.

Ex. G Pay It is a google application, which is used to communicate betwee bank to Account holder. When account holder wants to send money his friend then go to GPay and put friend's account details and then send money by using it. And GPay go to bank server and check your account balance and then successful transection or deny this request.

WhatsApp, PePhone, Google, .etc





Q2. Give advantages and disadvantages of using API.


Advantages	
Interpretation of real objects
Identification of complex patterns and complex situations
Ability to include or ignore features intelli- gently	
Multi-scale representation	
Use of shape, context, neighbourhood relationships	

Disadvantages
Sujective
Time consuming
A fixed scale is necessary
Inconsistency in the use of a steady scale to the whole image Human error
Imprecise boundary delineation


Q3. What is a Web API? Differentiate between API and Web API.
Ans:

Web API is an application programming interface for the Web.

Web API is a subset of API
It is specily designed for webpage


                    APIs                                                        Web APIs
Protocol	        P, FTP, or SMTP to communicate                              HTTP protocol
Platform	        used for creating any type of application                   specifically for web-based applications
Data formats	    support various data formats like as XML, JSON, or          support JSON or XML formats
                    CSV
Security	        variety of security mechanisms	                            standard web security protocols such as OAuth or API keys


Web API is a type of API that is specifically designed for web-based applications and is accessed over the internet using the HTTP protocol


Q4. Explain REST and SOAP Architecture. Mention shortcomings of SOAP.

Ans:

REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer and API stands for Application Program Interface. REST is a software architectural style that defines the set of rules to be used for creating web services.
A Restful system consists of a:

client who requests for the resources.
server who has the resources.


SOAP (formerly a backronym for Simple Object Access Protocol) is a messaging protocol specification for exchanging structured information in the implementation of web services
SOAP messaging structure

Envelope
Header (optional)
Body includes the request or response.
Fault

Shortcomings of SOAP

Complexity in code and understanding
Performance slower than other web service protocols
Developers facing Tooling problems


Q5. Differentiate between REST and SOAP.
Ans:

                   REST             SOAP
Protocol	       HTTP             Messaging
Performance	       Faster	        Slower
Scalability	       Scalable         Defcault to scale
Caching	           Available        Not available
Statelessness	   Stateless	    Maintain state